# Office 365 API

ACE has a base class you can use to interact with Microsoft Graph
API. It can be imported by `from saq import graph_api`. The graph API base class
utilizes the Microsoft-managed `msal` library for authentication.

To use the `graph_api.GraphApi` class you must provide a valid configuration.
The current base class is designed to faciliate client auth with
certificate-based authentication. Here is an example configuration:

```ini
[your_config_block_name]
tenant_id = uuid_from_o365
authority_base_url = https://login.microsoftonline.com
client_id = uuid_also_known_as_app_id
scopes = https://graph.microsoft.com/.default
thumbprint = certificate_thumbprint_as_defined_in_your_azure_ad_app
private_key_file = path/to/private/key/file

; -- make sure the slash at the end of the endpoint is present or it can cause some weird
;    behavior
endpoint = https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/
```

## Using the GraphAPI class

The `saq.graph_api.GraphAPI` class comes with some helpful methods:
- `initialize()`
    - When you instantiate the `GraphAPI` class, it is just loading the
    configuration in memory. The `GraphAPI.initiailize` method begins
    the requied I/O with Azure AD to get the authentication primed and
    ready to go.
    - You must call this function before attempting to make requests.
    - This was split out so that you could instantiate the `GraphAPI`
    class without requiring I/O. This helps for mocking in tests and
    loading several versions of this class (maybe with different configuration
    blocks for multiple O365 tenants).
- `build_url(path)`
    - This function returns a url with the appropriate base url for
    making HTTP requests to the Graph API endpoint/API.
    - For example:
        ```python
        email_user = 'admin@test.local'
        email_folder = 'inbox'

        api = saq.graph_api.GraphApi(graph_config)
        path = f'/{user}/mailFolders/{folder}/messages'

        url = api.build_url(path)

        print(url)
        # https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/admin@test.local/mailFolders/inbox/messages
        ```
- `request(endpoint, *args, method='get', proxies=None)`
    - This function is a helper function for making requests to Graph API.
    - It uses the python requests library to faciliate requests but
    handles **acquiring** and **injecting** an authorizaiton token into
    the request headers.
    - `**kwargs` is passed through to the request method. For example,
    if you have JSON body or paramaters you wish to send, you can pass it in as a keyword argument just like you would with the normal `requests`
    library:
        ```python
        # Lookup email message by message id

        email_user = 'admin@test.local'
        email_folder = 'inbox'
        message_id = '<12345abcde@test.local>`

        api = saq.graph_api.GraphApi(graph_config)
        path = f'/{user}/mailFolders/{folder}/messages'
        params = {"$filter": f"internetMessageId eq '{messaged_id}'"}

        url = api.build_url(path)

        response = api.request(url, method='get', params=params)
        ```
- `get_token()`
    - In normal use, you should not need to access this method.
    - This method is automatically called in `GraphAPI.request` if
    there is not an existing token.

The `saq.GraphAPI` base class was designed to be used with compositon
instead of inheritance whenever possible. For example, instead of inheriting directly from `saq.GraphAPI`, add it as an attribute to your class. This
does not prevent inheriting from `GraphAPI`, but future design descisions
will be made with composition in mind:
```python
from saq import graph_api

class DoThingsWithGraphAPI:
    def __init__(self, graph_config):
        self.api = graph_api.GraphAPI(graph_config)
    
    def initialize():
        self.api.initialize()
    
    def send_email():
        # build your url
        response = self.api.request(url, method='post', body=whatever)
        return response
```

To help with composition, there is a helper function designed to help
with this. 
```python
from saq import graph_api

class DoThingsWithGraphAPI:
    def __init__(self, graph_config):
        self.api = graph_api.get_graph_api_object(graph_config)
    
    def initialize():
        self.api.initialize()
    
    def send_email():
        # build your url
        response = self.api.request(url, method='post', body=whatever)
        return response
```

The `get_graph_api_object` helper function also adds the support for two more configuration parameters named `auth_ca_cert_path` and `graph_ca_cert_path` to help facilitate requests to graph API through SSL decryption-enabled proxies and firewalls.

```ini
[your_graph_api_config_block]
... other GraphAPI configuration params
auth_ca_cert_path = /path/to/ca/cert.crt
graph_ca_cert_path = /path/to/ca/cert.crt
```

`auth_ca_cert_path` and `graph_ca_cert_path` are passed into the GraphAPI
object via the `verify_auth` and `verify_graph` keyword arguments:

- `verify_auth`
    - This determines if the requests to the authentication URL at Azure AD
    should verify the SSL certificate. For example, you may pass in the
    path to your CA bundle if your corporate proxy decrypts SSL destined
    for the Azure AD authentication endpoint.
- `verify_graph`
    - This determines if the requests to the Graph API endpoint should
    verify the SSL certificate. For example, you may pass in the path
    to your CA bundle if your corporate proxy decrypts SSL destined for
    the Graph API endpoint.

Another keyword argument made available through the GraphAPI object is
`proxies`:
- This value is in the format of the proxies kwarg used by the
`requests` library. This value is saved and will be used for each
request performed by the `GraphAPI` object.

## Helper functions

There are many helper functions available in the `saq.graph_api` module.

If there is a function that directly uses the `GraphAPI` class to perform a more complex function, but can be used in many scenarios--like finding a message based on message id or moving an email, feel free to add it to the `saq.graph_api`

Use dependency injection when writing helper functions so testing is easier
and so that the functions can be used in a variety of cases--not just your
code. As an example, we'll look at

For example, take a look at the following function to help get the
mime content of an email:

```python
from saq.extractors import RESULT_MESSAGE_NOT_FOUND, RESULT_MESSAGE_FOUND

def get_mime_content_by_o365_id(api, user, item_id, **kwargs):
    """Return the email mime content from Graph API."""

    _request_func = kwargs.get('request_func') or api.request

    url = api.build_url(f"{user}/messages/{item_id}/$value")
    response = _request_func(url, method='get')
    if response.status_code != 200:
        return None, RESULT_MESSAGE_NOT_FOUND
    return response.text, RESULT_MESSAGE_FOUND
```

Notice the dependency injection... you must pass in the API object. This
allows more granular control of unit testing and helps keep the helper
function from being tightly coupled to any one implementation of the
api object itself. If the API object interface were to change, then
a single change in this function would update all code that uses
this function.

# Office 365 Collector

The O365 collector uses Graph API to pull in listed security events via the [Alert List API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/alert-list?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http). The code for this collector is present in /saq/collectors/o365.py.

## Configuration

To enable this collector the graph integration (`graph = yes`) must be enabled within `/etc/saq.integrations.ini`. All collector specific configurations are defined within `/etc/saq.graph.ini` there are three main sections, collector service config, obseravble mapping config, and configs for each o365 alert.

### Configuring the Service

Example:
```
[service_o365_security_collector] 
class = o365_Security_Collector 
type = graph
module = saq.collectors.o365
enabled = yes
tenant_id = YOUR_ID
client_id = YOUR_ID
thumbprint = YOUR_THUMBPRINT
private_key = path/to/o365sec.crt
auth_ca_cert_path = /Path/to/your/Root_CA.crt
cycletime = 60
```

The tenant ID, client ID, private key, and thumbprint are all derived from o365 credentials. Authenitcation is done via an application account via certificate. 

### Configuring the Observable Mapping

Currently Microsoft doesn't return much data in the response listing alerts, so only 3 observables are mapped. In the future if more data is returned these new fields can easily be captured by editing this observable mapping config.

Example:
```
[observable_mapping]
userPrincipalName = email_address
domainName = hostname
logonIp = ipv4
```

The configured key (`logonIP` for example) must be identical to one of the field names in the `userStates` section of graph api json response object. It is from this section of the response that all defined observables will be collected. The value must be set to one of the internal defined types.

Example snippet of userStates:
```
...
'userStates': [{'aadUserId': None,
                 'accountName': 'email.user',
                 'domainName': 'domain.com',
                 'emailRole': 'unknown',
                 'isVpn': None,
                 'logonDateTime': None,
                 'logonId': None,
                 'logonIp': None,
                 'logonLocation': None,
                 'logonType': None,
                 'onPremisesSecurityIdentifier': None,
                 'riskScore': None,
                 'userAccountType': None,
                 'userPrincipalName': 'email.user@domain.com'}],
...
```

### Configuring O365 Alerts

With no alerts configured the O365 collector would generate no alerts. Its easy to add new alerts with the following general config:

```
[o365_alert_Name_of_rule]
queue = external
enabled = True
correlation_mode = correlation
```

Each new rule added must be done so in its own section block with the prefix `o365_alert_`. This allows the collector to recognize what sections are rule configs. The rule name must be alphanumeric with `_` replaceing all special characters. Here is an example rule name conversion:

Original Rule Name: "Detected Suspicious Activity/Policy Changed"
Rule Config Name: [o365_alert_Detected_Suspicious_Activity_Policy_Changed]

Alerts will be sent to the defined queue location, this is not an optional field.

To enable or disable added alerts set the `enabled` key to be True/False, this is also not optional 

The correlation mode can be set, but will default to `correlation` if not set